Rule:
alert tcp $EXTERNAL_NET any -> $HOME_NET any (msg:"SCAN NULL";flags:0;
seq:0; ack:0; reference:arachnids,4; classtype:attempted-recon;
sid:623; rev:1;)

--
Sid:
623
--
Summary:
A tcp packet with none of it's control bits set was detected.

--
Impact:
Information regarding firewall rulesets, open/closed ports, ACLs, and
possibly even OS type is possible.  This technique can also be used to
bypass certain firewalls or traffic filtering/shaping devices.

--
Detailed Information:
A tcp packet with none of it's control bits (URG, ACK, PSH, RST, SYN,
FIN) was detected.  Additionally, both the sequence number and
acknowledgement number were set to 0.  An open port will generally not
respond at all, whereas a closed port will generally respond with an
ACK RST.  The particular response varies between operating systems,
and is also governed by any filtering that may be done between the two
hosts.

--
Attack Scenarios:
As part of information gathering leading up to another (more directed)
attack, an attacker may attempt to figure out what ports are
open/closed on a remote machine.

--
Ease of Attack:
Intermediate.  To initiate an attack of this type, an attacker either
needs a tool that can send tcp packets with no control bits  set or
the ability to craft their own packets.  The former is easy, the later
requires a more advanced skillset.

--
False Positives:
None.  This traffic should never be seen as part of legitimate tcp
communication.

--
False Negatives:
None.

--
Corrective Action:
Determine if this particular port would have responded as being open
or closed.  If open, watch for more attacks on this particular service
or from the remote machine that sent the packet.  If closed, simply
watch for more traffic from this host.

--
Contributors:
Jon Hart <warchild@spoofed.org>

-- 
Additional References:
